Add retry integrity tag (#3120)
quicwg/base-drafts: draft-ietf-quic-transport.md

## Protected Packets {#packet-protected}

All QUIC packets except Version Negotiation packets use authenticated

> encryption with additional data (AEAD) {{!RFC5116}} to provide confidentiality

Reviewer: The confidentiality bit means that this statement still applies to Retry.

Author: I'm not sure whether Retry packets have less confidentiality protection than Initial packets?

Reviewer 2: They're not encrypted, so kind of by definition....

+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                 Source Connection ID (0..160)               ...
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

> |                        Retry Token (*)                      ...

Reviewer: In the interests of cleaner parsing, should we add a length for the token?  That would increase the similarity of this header with the Initial header.

Author: We could, but then we'd have to handle the case where the length is wrong. I don't feel too strongly either way

Reviewer 2: We have a convention of having the final variable-length field have an implicit length.  It reduces the possibility of "impossible" packets.  I'm inclined to keep the PR as-is.

Reviewer: We already have impossible packets.  The DCID Len field can indicate a length longer than the packet.

+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                                                               |
+                                                               +
|                                                               |

> +                   Retry Integrity Tag (128)                   +

Reviewer: I wonder if we shouldn't just label this AEAD Ciphertext rather than just a tag.

Author: I initially had checksum, which is somewhat closer to our intent by not fully correct. I'd personally rather have a name that conveys intent rather than construction, but I'll let the editors decide.

attempt.  After the client has received and processed an Initial or Retry packet
from the server, it MUST discard any subsequent Retry packets that it receives.

> Clients MUST discard Retry packets whose Retry Integrity Tag cannot be

Reviewer: Unnecessary anthropomorphism (or at least implied possessive).
```suggestion
Clients MUST discard Retry packets that have a Retry Integrity Tag that cannot be
```

validated, see the Retry Packet Integrity section of {{QUIC-TLS}}. This

> mitigates an off-path attacker's ability to inject a Retry packet, and protects

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
mitigates an off-path attacker's ability to inject a Retry packet and protects
```

attempt.  After the client has received and processed an Initial or Retry packet
from the server, it MUST discard any subsequent Retry packets that it receives.

Clients MUST discard Retry packets whose Retry Integrity Tag cannot be
validated, see the Retry Packet Integrity section of {{QUIC-TLS}}. This

> mitigates an off-path attacker's ability to inject a Retry packet.

Reviewer: I think that we want to add: "and protects against accidental corruption of Retry packets."

Author: Done

A server acknowledges the use of a Retry packet for a connection using the
original_connection_id transport parameter (see

> {{transport-parameter-definitions}}).

Reviewer 3: This could be more concrete, e.g. `by setting the original_connection_id transport parameter to the Destination Connection ID from the client's first Initial packet`.

Reviewer 4: I agree with @marten-seemann here. The server MUST set the transport parameter. You're removing normative language here.

Author: Good point, fixed.
